# Shared Cluster Computing at UCSF

## Purpose

The shared cluster computing at UCSF was founded by basic scientists
to support their research programs.  In the process, researchers
benefit from maximized economies of scale in building, administering,
and using the cluster. The cluster provides computing capacity,
network connectivity internally at UCSF and externally to research
networks such as the Pacific Research Platform, data storage, job
queueing with accounting, and systems administration. As a result, the
cluster contributes directly to the basic mission of UCSF, including
research, education, and outreach.


## Principles

The cluster is built on a co-op model rather than a fee-for-service
model, in contrast to, for example, most technology cores at UCSF and
high-performance computing provided by Amazon Web Services. In the
co-op model, every contributing research group has immediate access to
the cluster computing power and storage capacity proportionate to
their contribution; contributions are preferably made in cash,
although suitable existing hardware may also be integrated. This
funding model suits best the often unpredictable timing and amount of
research funds available to individual projects. In addition, our goal
is to maximize the number of UCSF users of the shared
cluster. Therefore, every member of the UCSF community has access to a
fraction of the cluster computing power and storage capacity
regardless of their contribution, reflecting the contribution by UCSF
and shared instrumentation grants from NIH and NSF.  Finally, any
unused compute power is available to any user on a first-come,
first-served basis. Every effort is made to accommodate and expand the
set of applications that can be run efficiently on the cluster, as
long as they don’t negatively impact our founding goals.  If a
contributing member leaves the consortium, they are entitled to take
their contribution with them (except for communal storage).


## Governance

The cluster is governed by a Faculty Steering Committee, guided by the
cluster’s purpose and organizational principles outlined above. The
Committee consists of major contributing basic scientists, a
representative of guest users, and a campus Information Technology
representative, all of whom have some expertise in
cluster computing. The Committee meets as required to review overall
utilization of the system, plan future expansions, discuss funding
opportunities, etc. The Committee also resolves any disputes
concerning use and governance of the cluster. Committee matters are
addressed at meetings and by email as needed. To ensure continuity of
governance, the Committee appoints new members by a majority vote. The
Committee currently consists of Kliment Verba, Sergio Baranzini, Scott
Pegg, Brian Shoichet, Tom Ferrin (Co-Chair), Andrej Sali (Co-Chair),
Mike Keiser (representing guest users), and Mandy Terrill (Campus IT).
